---
id: 870
title: "8.7 Release notes"
description: "Release notes for 8.7, including alphas"
keywords:
  [
    "product development lifecycle",
    "software development lifecycle",
    "CI/CD",
    "AI",
  ]
---

These release notes identify the new features included in 8.7, including [alpha feature releases](/components/early-access/alpha/alpha-features.md).

## 8.7 minor

| Scheduled release date | Scheduled end of maintenance | Changelog(s) | Release blog | Update guide |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| 11 February 2025       | 11 August 2026               | -            | -            | -            |

## 8.7.0-alpha2

| Release date     | Changelog(s)                                                                                                                                                                                 | Blog                                                                                  |
| :--------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 10 December 2024 | <ul><li>[ Camunda 8 core ](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.7.0-alpha2)</li><li>[ Connectors ](https://github.com/camunda/connectors/releases/tag/8.7.0-alpha2.1)</li></ul> | [Release blog](https://camunda.com/blog/2024/12/camunda-alpha-release-december-2024/) |

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2244 https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2245 -->

### Camunda 8 REST API Query API <span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects APIs">API</span>

You can now use a single Query API in the Camunda 8 REST API to find process and decision data instead of using multiple component APIs.

For example, send a request to the [Query decision definitions](/apis-tools/camunda-api-rest/specifications/find-decision-definitions.api.mdx) endpoint to search for decision definitions.

New Query API endpoints are added as follows:

- Decision definitions
- Decision instances
- Decision requirements
- Flownode instances
- Incidents
- Process definitions
- Process instances
- User tasks
- Variables

To learn more about these endpoints, see the [Camunda 8 REST API](/apis-tools/camunda-api-rest/camunda-api-rest-overview.md#query-api) documentation.

### Connectors <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Connectors">Connectors</span>

New Connectors and enhancements are included in this release.

#### AWS Amazon Comprehend Connector

The new Amazon Comprehend Connector allows you to integrate your BPMN service with Amazon Comprehend, a service which extracts insights about the content of documents, such as personal identifiable information (PII) and key phrases.

To learn more about this Connector, see [Amazon Comprehend Connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/amazon-comprehend.md).

#### Email Connector attachments

The Email connector is enhanced as follows:

- Supports attachments stored in the document store.
- Supports custom headers.
- Messages can now be sent as plaintext, HTML, or in both formats.

To learn more about this Connector, see [Email Connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/email.md).

#### Google Gemini Connector

The new Google Gemini Connector allows you to access Gemini multimodal models from Google, capable of understanding virtually any input, and combining different types of information in your BPMN process.

To learn more about this Connector, see [Google Gemini Connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/google-gemini.md).

#### Webhook Connector document upload

Document upload is now supported by the Webhook Connector. Uploads can now be stored in the document store and are available for further processing for start and intermediate events.

- Use the `documents` object to access created documents in both the response expression and the result expression.
- The `documents` object contains the references for created documents.

To learn more about this feature, see [HTTP Webhook Connector](/components/connectors/protocol/http-webhook.md).

### Connector Runtime <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Connectors">Connectors</span>

#### Spring SDK and Camunda REST API Migration

The Connectors experience is enhanced with the migration from the Spring Zeebe to the Camunda REST API, and the removal of dependency on the Operate client.

#### Testing Support migration

Connectors are supported in the Camunda Process Test (CPT) Java library you can use to test your BPMN processes and process application.

To learn more about this feature, see [Camunda Process Test getting started](/apis-tools/testing/getting-started.md).

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2548 -->

### Cluster disk space cleared for paused trial clusters <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span>

Cluster disk space is cleared when a trial cluster is paused.

- You will need to redeploy processes to the cluster once it is resumed from a paused state.
- Cluster configuration settings (for example, API Clients, Connector secrets, and IP allowlists) are saved so you can easily resume a cluster.

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2409 -->

### Document handling <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span>

New features are available as part of the enhanced document handling being delivered with the 8.7 release.

- A new Document API is available as part of the [Camunda 8 REST API](/apis-tools/camunda-api-rest/camunda-api-rest-overview.md).
- The [Java client](/apis-tools/java-client/index.md) is enhanced to support these new Document API methods.
- A document store concept is introduced and implemented as an in-memory and a GCP-based document store.
- A new Tasklist [Filepicker component](/components/modeler/forms/form-element-library/forms-element-library-filepicker.md) is added for uploading documents to the document store in a form.
- The [Connector SDK](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md) is enhanced to provide document support in property/variable bindings.
- The [Webhook connector](/components/connectors/protocol/http-webhook.md) supports Documents via the `documents` object.

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2530 -->

### Export activity logs in Console <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Console">Console</span>

You can export activity logs as JSON or CSV files from the Console UI or API.

- **UI:** On the Organization management **Activity** tab, click **Export activity**.
- **API:** Send a GET request to the Management API `GetJson` or `GetCsv` endpoint.

To learn more about this feature, see [view organization activity](/components/console/manage-organization/view-organization-activity.md).

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/24374, https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/24385, https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/24377 -->

### Process instance migration <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Zeebe">Zeebe</span>

Enhanced process instance migration allows you to solve problems with process definitions and use the latest process improvements.

You can now migrate the following:

- Compensation boundary event subscriptions
- Escalation boundary events
- Escalation event subprocesses

To learn more about migration, see [process instance migration](/components/concepts/process-instance-migration.md).

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2556 -->

### Singapore region available for SaaS <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span>

A new Singapore (asia-southeast1) region is available for SaaS clusters. Use this region to:

- Improve overall processing speed and reduce latency if you operate in Singapore and Southeast Asian (SEA) countries.
- Keep cluster data within Singapore to support your local data residency and compliance needs.

To learn more about supported SaaS regions, see [regions](/reference/regions.md).

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2122 -->

### Tags and properties in Self-Managed Console <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Console">Console</span>

Use custom tags and properties in Self-Managed Console to improve your orchestration cluster management.

- Administrators can now assign tags such as `prod`, `dev`, or `test` to clusters for clear identification across environments.
- Tags are shown in the Console UI, and accessible via the Administration API to streamline usage reporting and cost allocation.
- Custom properties provide contextual information about each cluster. Administrators can add detailed descriptions, team names, and include links to resources such as Grafana dashboards or internal portals, shown in the Console **Cluster Details**.

This feature allows you to differentiate clusters, ensure configurations align with production standards (for example, check TLS is enabled, correct partition counts), and improve operational efficiency by making key information more visible.

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2073 -->

### Unified deployment experience from Web Modeler <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Modeler">Modeler</span>

The deployment experience is further simplified for Enterprise customers running Web Modeler Self-Managed.

- User tokens are used for deployments instead of machine-to-machine (M2M) tokens generated from a client ID and secret.
- You no longer need to enter a client ID and secret in the deploy modal. Instead, simply choose a cluster (or stage for process applications) and deploy.

## 8.7.0-alpha1

| Release date     | Changelog(s)                                                                                                                                                                               | Blog                                                                                  |
| :--------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 12 November 2024 | <ul><li>[ Camunda 8 core ](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.7.0-alpha1)</li><li>[ Connectors ](https://github.com/camunda/connectors/releases/tag/8.7.0-alpha1)</li></ul> | [Release blog](https://camunda.com/blog/2024/11/camunda-alpha-release-november-2024/) |

### Activity log information in Console <span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Console">Console</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2528 -->

Console activity logs now contain information about changes made to secrets (add, update, remove), and Console user removals (unregistered organization users).

### Email Connector <span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Connectors">Connectors</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2430 -->

The new Email Connector allows you to:

- Integrate your BPMN service with any email server using POP3, IMAP, or SMTP.
- Automate the retrieval, deletion, search, and organization of emails directly within your processes.

To learn more about this Connector, see [Email Connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/email.md).

### Generate Connector templates (OpenAPI + Postman) <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Connectors">Connectors</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2049 -->

You can now configure and automatically generate a custom Connector template in Web Modeler. This feature simplifies creating consistent, deployable templates, making Connector setup quicker and more flexible.

- You can start from a blank template or import an existing API definition such as an OpenAPI specification, Swagger specification, or a Postman collection.
- For example, download a Postman collection as a YAML file, import this into the generator, and choose which methods to include in the generated template.

To learn more about generating Connector templates, see [generate a Connector template](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-template-generator.md).

### Monorepo Git sync <span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Modeler">Modeler</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2503 -->

When configuring Git sync in Web Modeler, define the optional `/path` option to unlock new use cases.

- This option allows you to specify the path to the folder containing your process application files.
- Sync with your main branch to perform visual diffing, collaboration, and manual testing in Web Modeler. Remember not to make any changes in this branch.
- Edit the `/path` for multiple process applications to integrate Web Modeler with your existing monorepo and code assets.

To learn more about configuring Git sync, see [Git sync](/components/modeler/web-modeler/git-sync.md).

### Resize clusters on SaaS <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects SaaS">SaaS</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Console">Console</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2515 -->

Enterprise customers can flexibly resize their clusters to adjust capacity and performance.

- Increase or decrease the cluster size at any time by adding or removing hosting packages.
- For example, increase the cluster size to improve performance and add capacity, or decrease the cluster size to free up reservations for another cluster.

To learn more about this feature, see [resize a cluster](/components/console/manage-clusters/manage-cluster.md#resize-a-cluster).

### Unified deployment experience for Web Modeler <span class="badge badge--long" title="This feature affects Self-Managed">Self-Managed</span><span class="badge badge--medium" title="This feature affects Modeler">Modeler</span>

<!-- https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/2073 -->

#### Deployment stages

Predefined deployment stages for process applications are now also available in Web Modeler Self-Managed.

- Select your dev, test, stage, and prod clusters to ensure process applications flow easily and predictably through your deployment pipeline.
- For added control, do not assign a stage or prod environment to enable rapid iteration in Web Modeler while still ensuring deployments run through your approved pipeline.

#### Simplified deployment

The deployment experience for Enterprise customers running Web Modeler Self-Managed is simplified.

- During Camunda installation, you can configure your Helm chart to decide which clusters are available from Web Modeler by default, and save their connection information.
- With this setup, you only need to select a cluster, and add secrets and a tenant ID as required.
