---
id: 3.11_8.3-to-3.12_8.4
title: "Update notes (8.3/3.11 to 8.4/3.12)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 8.4/3.12, perform the steps in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 8.4/3.12 can be performed from any 8.3/3.11 release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in supported environments
- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Changes in supported environments

### Elasticsearch

With 8.4/3.12, Optimize now supports Elasticsearch `8.9`.
Additionally, please note there are temporary changes in Optimize's Elasticsearch support as detailed below:

| Optimize version                        | Elasticsearch version            |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Optimize 3.10.0 - Optimize 3.10.3       | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.5.0+, 8.6.0+ |
| Optimize 3.10.4                         | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.7.0+, 8.8.0+ |
| Optimize 3.10.5 - Optimize 8.3.x/3.11.x | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.5.0+, 8.6.0+ |
| Optimize 8.3.x/3.11.x                   | 8.8.0+                           |
| Optimize 8.4.x/3.12.x                   | 8.9.0+                           |

See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments) section for the full range of supported versions.

If you need to update your Elasticsearch cluster, refer to the general [Elasticsearch update guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html). Usually, the only thing you need to do is perform a [rolling update](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rolling-upgrades.html).

### Plugins

Optimize now runs with Spring Boot 3. As a result, some plugin interfaces have been updated accordingly. More specifically, the [Engine Rest Filter Plugin](./../plugins/engine-rest-filter-plugin.md) and the [Single-Sign-On Plugin](./../plugins/single-sign-on.md) now import jakarta dependencies. If you use these plugins and are updating from version 3.10.3 or earlier, you will need to adjust your implementation accordingly.

### Logging

With the change to Spring Boot 3, Optimize's logging configuration format has also been updated. If you are updating from version 3.10.3 or earlier, please review the updated `environment-logback.xml` to make sure your configuration is valid.

## Changes in behavior

### Collection role cleanup

Prior to Optimize 8.4/3.12, Optimize has performed collection role cleanup after syncing identities with the engine. From
Optimize 8.4/3.12 onwards, this is now disabled by default. It can be re-enabled by setting the
`import.identitySync.collectionRoleCleanupEnabled` property value to `true`

### API behavior

Before the 7.20/8.3 release, the Optimize API would accept requests when the URI contained a trailing slash (`/`). This is no longer the case, and requests containing a trailing slash will no longer be matched to the corresponding API path.

### Raw data report API

:::caution
These changes require you to adjust any integrations using the data mentioned below.
:::

The data structure of raw data reports has changed. For the data export API, the properties named `numberOfIncidents`, `numberOfOpenIncidents`, and `numberOfUserTasks` is now renamed to `incidents`, `openIncidents`, and `userTasks` respectively, and grouped together in a single property named `counts`.

Before:

```
{
  ...
  results: {
    ...
    measures: [
      {
        processDefinitionKey: 'someKey',
        numberOfIncidents: 1,
        numberOfOpenIncidents: 0,
        numberOfUserTasks: 1,
        ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

After:

```
{
  ...
  results: {
    ...
    measures: [
      {
        processDefinitionKey: 'someKey',
        counts: {
          incidents: 1,
          openIncidents: 0,
          userTasks: 1
        },
        ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

For CSV export the properties are renamed to `count:incidents`, `count:openIncidents`, and `count:userTasks`.

### Localization file

The following terms have been added to or removed from the localization file `en.json` since the last release:

[en.json.diff](./translation-diffs/differences_localization_311_312.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark the addition/update of a term; lines with a `-` mark the removal of a term.
