---
id: 2.3-to-2.4
title: "Update notes (2.3 to 2.4)"
---

<span class="badge badge--platform">Camunda 7 only</span>

:::note Heads Up!
To update Optimize to version 2.4.0, perform the following steps first: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (e.g due to a new feature)

## Changes in the supported environments

With this Optimize version, the supported versions of Elasticsearch also change. Now, Optimize only connects to versions 6.2.0+. See the [Supported Environments](/reference/supported-environments.md) sections for details.

Hence, you need to update Elasticsearch to use the new Optimize version. See the general [Elasticsearch Update Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html) on how to do that. Usually, the only thing you need to do is to perform a [rolling update](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rolling-upgrades.html).

## Known issues

### Confusing warning during the update

On executing the update, you may see the following warning a couple of times in the update log output:

```
Deprecated big difference between max_gram and min_gram in NGram Tokenizer, expected difference must be less than or equal to: [1]
```

You can safely ignore this warning. The update itself amends the relevant index settings so the warning will be resolved.

## Misinterpreted cron expressions

The configuration of Optimize allows you to define when the history cleanup is triggered using cron expression notation. However, the values are incorrectly interpreted in Optimize. For example, the `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` configuration has the default value `0 1 * * *`, which should be 01:00 AM every day. Unfortunately, a bug causes this to be interpreted as every hour.

To fix this, use the Spring [cron expression notation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/scheduling/support/CronExpression.html). For instance, the default value for `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` would then be `0 0 1 * * *`.
