---
id: 3.13_8.5-to-8.6
title: "Update notes (8.5/3.13 to 8.6)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 8.6, perform the steps in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 8.6 can be performed from any 8.5 release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in supported environments
- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Versioning

From Optimize 8.6 onwards, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 8 will exclusively be using the 8.x.x versioning scheme. Conversely, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 7 will exclusively be using the 3.x.x versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 8.6 if you are currently using Optimize 8.15 or below. Optimize instances of versions 3.13 and below will not be upgradeable to Optimize 8.6.
In order to ensure that no Optimize 7 upgrade is executed on an Optimize instance previously running with Camunda Platform 8, the 8.6 upgrade runs a check against you database before executing the upgrade. This check detects whether any Camunda Platform 7 data is present in your setup and if so, the upgrade will be aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `license-index` which is exclusively used in Camunda Platform 7 environments. If you are encountering issues upgrading to 8.6 in your Camunda Platform 8 environment please contact Support.

## Changes in behavior

### Telemetry

Optimize no longer gathers telemetry data, and this is removed from the UI and Elasticsearch. The associated key in the configuration file (`telemetry.telemetryEndpoint`) was removed.

### Java

Optimize now supports Java 21+.

### Elasticsearch

Optimize now supports Elasticsearch 8.13.0+.

See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments/#component-requirements) documentation for the full range of supported versions.

### Artifact and Docker tag separation

Starting with Camunda 8.6, Optimize artifact has been split into two distinct versions, and versioning between Camunda 7 and Camunda 8 is no longer interchangeable:

- **Before Camunda 8.6**: Versions like `8.x` and `3.x` (used for Camunda 7) could sometimes be used interchangeably.
- **From Camunda 8.6 onwards**: `8.6 != 3.14`. Each version corresponds strictly to its platform:
  - **Camunda 7**: Uses the `3.x` versioning scheme and the `latest` Docker tag.
  - **Camunda 8**: Uses the `8.x` versioning scheme and the `8-latest` Docker tag.

#### Action required:

- **Camunda 7 Users**: Continue using `3.x` versions and the `latest` Docker tag.
- **Camunda 8 Users**: Update your configurations to use `8.x` versions and the `8-latest` Docker tag.

Make sure to update your Docker configurations accordingly to ensure compatibility.
