---
id: 3.9-preview-1-to-3.9
title: "Update notes (3.9-preview-x to 3.9.x)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 3.9.x, perform the steps in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 3.9.x can be performed from any 3.8.x or any 3.9.0-preview release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Known issues

If there are processes in Optimize that currently do not have a process owner assigned and a new process is deployed
via Web Modeler, a new process owner may be assigned to one of the previous
processes without an owner. This is not critical as this does not incur any changes in permissions, but is important to understand regarding who gets email notifications for processes. If an owner is set incorrectly, you can change it manually in the processes page.
This issue is resolved with the 3.9.1 version.

## Changes in supported environments

### Elasticsearch

Optimize now requires at least Elasticsearch `7.13.0`.
See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments) section for the full range of supported versions.

If you need to update your Elasticsearch cluster, refer to the general [Elasticsearch update guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html). Usually, the only thing you need to do is perform a [rolling update](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rolling-upgrades.html).

## Changes in translation files

In case you manage your own translations into different languages, you can find a diff below with all the changes that need to be translated for this release.

### Localization file

The following terms have been added to or removed from the localization file `en.json` since the last release:

[en.json.diff](../translation-diffs/differences_localization_390_preview_1_390.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark the addition/update of a term; lines with a `-` mark the removal of a term.
