---
id: 2.2-to-2.3
title: "Update notes (2.2 to 2.3)"
---

<span class="badge badge--platform">Camunda 7 only</span>

:::note Heads Up!
To update Optimize to version 2.3.0, perform the following steps first: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (e.g due to a new feature)

## Known issues

### Broken links

After the migration, you might encounter some unusual errors in Optimize:

- Buttons or links are not working when you click on them.
- You get errors in your web browser when you open the Optimize page.

In this case, clear your browser cache so your browser loads the new Optimize resources.

### Broken raw data reports

Apart from caching issues, there is the following list of known data update limitations:

- Raw data reports with custom column order are broken showing the following error when opened:

      ```javascript
      Cannot read property 'indexOf' of undefined
      ```

  To resolve this, either delete and recreate those reports or update to 2.4.0 which resolves the issue.

- Combined process reports might cause the reports page to crash with the following error

  ```javascript
  	Oh no :(
  	Minified React error #130; visit http://facebook.github.io/react/docs/error-decoder.html?invariant=130&args[]=undefined&args[]= for the full message or use the non-minified dev environment for full errors and additional helpful warnings.
  ```

  To resolve this issue, update to 2.4.0 immediately.

### Misinterpreted cron expressions

The configuration of Optimize allows you to define when the history cleanup is triggered using cron expression notation. However, the values are incorrectly interpreted in Optimize. For example, the `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` configuration has the default value `0 1 * * *`, which should be 01:00 AM every day. Unfortunately, a bug causes this to be interpreted as every hour.

To fix this, use the Spring [cron expression notation](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/scheduling/support/CronSequenceGenerator.html). For instance, the default value for `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` would then be `0 0 1 * * *`.
