---
id: 3.6-to-3.7
title: "Update notes (3.6 to 3.7.x)"
---

<span class="badge badge--platform">Camunda 7 only</span>

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 3.7.x, perform the following steps: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 3.7.x can be performed from any 3.6.x release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (e.g due to a new feature)

## Known issues

The Optimize 3.7.0 release contains a number of bugs related to dashboard templates, alerts, and the Report Builder.

For details on the issues, refer to the [Optimize 3.7.1 Release Notes](https://jira.camunda.com/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10730&version=17434).

The Optimize 3.7.0 - 3.7.1 releases contain a bug in which decision instance object variables are erroneously attempted to be imported. This can lead to the decision variable import getting stuck.

For details on the issues refer to the [Optimize 3.7.2 Release Notes](https://jira.camunda.com/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10730&version=17441).

The Optimize 3.7.0 - 3.7.2 releases contain a bug in which object variables that contain a property with an empty string value cause an exception upon import which can block the import of further variables.

For details on the issue refer to the [Optimize 3.7.3 Release Notes](https://jira.camunda.com/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10730&version=17452).

We thus recommend updating to 3.7.3 if you are already using 3.7.0, 3.7.1, or 3.7.2, or directly updating to 3.7.3 if you are still running a 3.6.x release.

## New behavior

### Added support for object and list variables

With Optimize 3.7, we've added support for object and list process variables. Variables with type `Object` are now automatically imported and flattened into dedicated "sub variables" for each object property. If you have previously used a variable import plugin to achieve the same, you may disable this plugin after migrating to Optimize 3.7.

Find more information about importing object variables [here](./../configuration/object-variables.md).
