---
id: 3.13_8.5-to-8.6
title: "Update notes (8.5/3.13 to 8.6)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 8.6, perform the steps in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 8.6 can be performed from any 8.5 release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in supported environments
- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Limitations

Not all Optimize features are supported when using OpenSearch as a database. For a full list of the features that are currently supported, please refer to the [Camunda 8 OpenSearch features](https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/635).

## Versioning

As of Optimize 8.6, instances of Optimize running with Camunda 8 exclusively use the `8.x.x` versioning scheme. Instances of Optimize running with Camunda 7 exclusively use the `3.x.x` versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 8.6 if you currently use Optimize 8.5/3.13 with Camunda 8. Optimize instances of versions 8.5/3.13 running with Camunda 7 cannot be upgraded to Optimize 8.6.

To ensure that Optimize 7 upgrades are not applied to Operate instances using Camunda 8, the 8.6 upgrade runs a check against the connected database before executing, and exits the upgrade if any Camunda 7 data is present in your setup. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `license-index`, which is exclusively used in Camunda 7 environments.

Contact [Camunda support](https://camunda.com/services/support/) if you encounter issues upgrading to 8.6 in your Camunda Platform 8 environment.

## Changes in behavior

### Telemetry

Optimize no longer gathers telemetry data, and this is removed from the UI and Elasticsearch. The associated key in the configuration file (`telemetry.telemetryEndpoint`) was removed.

### Java

Optimize now supports Java 21+.

### Database

Optimize now supports Elasticsearch 8.13.0+ or Amazon OpenSearch 2.9.0+

See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments/#component-requirements) documentation for the full range of supported versions.

### Artifact and Docker tag separation

Starting with Camunda 8.6, the Camunda Optimize artifact has been split into two distinct versions, and versioning between Camunda 7 and Camunda 8 is no longer interchangeable:

- **Before Camunda 8.6**: Versions like `8.x` and `3.x` (used for Camunda 7) could sometimes be used interchangeably.
- **From Camunda 8.6 onwards**: `8.6 != 3.14`. Each version corresponds strictly to its platform:
  - **Camunda 7**: Uses the `3.x` versioning scheme and the `latest` Docker tag.
  - **Camunda 8**: Uses the `8.x` versioning scheme and the `8-latest` Docker tag.

#### Action required:

- **Camunda 7 Users**: Continue using `3.x` versions and the `latest` Docker tag.
- **Camunda 8 Users**: Update your configurations to use `8.x` versions and the `8-latest` Docker tag.

Make sure to update your Docker configurations accordingly to ensure compatibility.

## Changes in translation files

### Localization file

The following terms have been added to or removed from the localization file `en.json` since the last release:

[en.json.diff](../translation-diffs/differences_localization_313_314.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark a term addition/update. Lines with a `-` mark a term removal.
