---
id: 120-to-130
title: Update 1.2 to 1.3
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda Cloud 1.2.x to 1.3.2."
---
<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda Cloud 1.2.x to 1.3.2 for each component of the system.

## Server

### Zeebe

:::caution
A critical [issue](https://github.com/camunda-cloud/zeebe/issues/8611) which may lead to data loss was identified in 1.3.0 and 1.3.1. This issue is related to the new assignee and candidate group feature introduced in 1.3.0, and only affects users which make use of it. However, when updating, it's still recommended that you skip versions 1.3.0 and 1.3.1 and update directly from 1.2.9 to 1.3.2.

Please refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/camunda-cloud/zeebe/releases/tag/1.3.2) for more.
:::

### Operate

:::caution
A critical issue was found on Operate data importer which may lead to incidents not being imported to Operate. This issue is affecting versions `1.3.0`, `1.3.1`, `1.3.2` and `1.3.3`.
We strongly recommend to skip affected versions and make sure you are running version `1.3.4` if upgrading from `1.2.x`.

Please refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/camunda-cloud/zeebe/releases/tag/1.3.4) for more.
:::

With Operate 1.3, a new feature was introduced to propagate incidents from called instances to calling instances. 
This feature is only available for instances started after the version 1.3 update. Older instances will still be shown as active
even though incidents in called instances may exist.

### Tasklist

Because of internal changes in user data processing update to Tasklist 1.3 will erase all information about task assignments.
End users would need to claim their tasks again.

