---
id: 810-to-820
title: Update 8.1 to 8.2
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda Platform 8.1.x to Camunda Platform 8.2.0."
---

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda Platform 8.1.x to 8.2.0 for each component.

## Zeebe

### New configuration for disk usage

A new configuration for [tuning disk usage](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/disk-space.md) is added.
The old configurations are still accepted, but they are deprecated. We recommend using the new configuration.

### Changes to default backpressure

The default [backpressure](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/backpressure.md) algorithm changed from **Vegas** to **additive-increase/multiplicative-decrease (AIMD)**.

:::note
This may change the performance characteristics. If you have tuned your system for specific latency or throughput, we recommend you reevaluate with the new version.
:::

## Operate

- It is recommended to follow a sequential update path when updating to version 8.2. For example, if running on version 8.0, first update to 8.1, then update to 8.2.
- Migration of data during the version 8.2 update could take longer than previous versions, especially for datasets containing a large amount of incidents data.
- Operate now uses Spring Boot version 3.0. Therefore, [URLs with a trailing slash will fail with an HTTP status 404](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-3.0-Migration-Guide#spring-mvc-and-webflux-url-matching-changes).

## Tasklist

- New configuration is required to enable the Tasklist **Process** page:
  - `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_BASEURL` environment variable should be configured to your Identity host.
  - `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_PERMISSIONS_ENABLED` environment variable should be set to `true` or `false` (default). This configures Tasklist to use authorizations from Identity.
    - To enable this variable in Tasklist, resource authorizations must be [enabled in Identity](../../identity/user-guide/authorizations/managing-resource-authorizations/).
    - If `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_PERMISSIONS_ENABLED` is set to `true`, you must configure `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_BASEURL`. Otherwise, Tasklist will not be able to reach Identity.
- Tasklist now uses Spring Boot version 3.0. Therefore, [URLs with a trailing slash will fail with an HTTP status 404](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-3.0-Migration-Guide#spring-mvc-and-webflux-url-matching-changes).
