---
id: 3.9-preview-1-to-3.9
title: "Update notes (3.9-preview-x to 3.9.x)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 3.9.x, perform the following steps: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 3.9.x can be performed from any 3.8.x or any 3.9.0-preview release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Known issues

If there are processes in Optimize that currently do not have a process owner assigned and a new process is deployed
via the web modeler, then it could happen that a new process owner is assigned to one of the previously ownerless
processes. This is not critical as this does not incur any changes in permissions, this is just about who gets email
notifications for that process. If an owner has been wrongly set, you can change it manually in the processes page.
This issue is resolved with the 3.9.1 version.

## Changes in supported environments

## Changes in translation files

In case you manage your own translations into different languages, you can find a list below with all the changes that need to be translated for this release.

### Localization file

The following terms have been added/removed to/from the localization file (`en.json`) since the last release:

[en.json.diff](./translation-diffs/differences_localization_390_preview_1_390.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark the addition/update of a term; lines with a `-` mark the removal of a term.

### Camunda Platform 7

Optimize now requires at least Camunda Platform 7 `7.16.0` and supports up to `7.18.0+`. Camunda Platform 7 `7.15.x` is not supported anymore.
See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments/#camunda-platform-7--optimize-version-matrix) sections for the full range of supported versions.

### Elasticsearch

Optimize now requires at least Elasticsearch `7.13.0`.
See the [Supported Environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments) sections for the full range of supported versions.

If you need to update your Elasticsearch cluster, refer to the general [Elasticsearch Update Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html) on how to do that. Usually, the only thing you need to do is perform a [rolling update](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rolling-upgrades.html).
