---
id: 800-to-810
title: Update 8.0 to 8.1
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.0.x to Camunda 8.1.0"
---

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.0.x to 8.1.0 for each component of the system.

## Server

### Zeebe

:::caution
A critical issue was found in the Zeebe Elasticsearch exporter, resulting in records not getting exported after performing a process instance modification. This issue affects only Zeebe version 8.1.1.
When updating, it is therefore recommended you skip version 8.1.1 and update directly to 8.1.2.

Refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-platform/releases/tag/8.1.2) for more details.
:::

No changes are required to update Zeebe 8.0 to 8.1. However, there are deprecated properties you should be aware of.

:::note
Even if these parameters are deprecated, you can still use them because of the backward compatibility of the Zeebe versioning system.
:::

Deprecated properties:

- Zeebe Gateway's property `contactPoint`
  - Remove the usage of `zeebe.gateway.cluster.contactPoint` property or the `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_CLUSTER_CONTACTPOINT` environment variable.
  - Use the `zeebe.gateway.cluster.initialContactPoints` property or the `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_CLUSTER_INITIALCONTACTPOINTS` environment variable.

:::note
You can set the list of broker addresses here to make the start process of the Zeebe gateway more resilient. Refer to [the Zeebe gateway's configuration guide](../../../self-managed/zeebe-gateway-deployment/zeebe-gateway/#cluster-configuration) for more details.
:::

### Operate

:::caution
A critical issue was found on Operate data importer which may lead to incidents not being imported to Operate.
This issue is affecting only Operate installations which where updated from 8.0, and not new installations of Operate.
When updating, it is recommended that you skip versions 8.1.0 and update directly to 8.1.1.

Please refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-platform/releases/tag/8.1.1) for more.
:::
