---
id: 3.13-to-3.14
title: "Update notes (3.13 to 3.14)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To update Optimize to version 3.14, perform the steps in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The update to 3.14 can be performed from any 3.13 release.

For users of Optimize 3.7.3 with OpenSearch, there is a direct update path from 3.7.3 to 3.14. The required steps are described in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in supported environments
- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Limitations

Not all Optimize features are supported when using OpenSearch as a database. For a full list of the features that are currently supported, please refer to the [Camunda 7 OpenSearch features](https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/705).

## Versioning

As of Optimize 3.14, instances of Optimize running with Camunda 7 exclusively use the `3.x.x` versioning scheme. Instances of Optimize running with Camunda 8 exclusively use the `8.x.x` versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 3.14 if you currently use Optimize 3.13/8.5 with Camunda 7. Optimize instances of versions 3.13/8.5 running with Camunda 8 cannot be upgraded to Optimize 3.14.

To ensure that Optimize 8 upgrades are not applied to Operate instances using Camunda 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against the connected database before executing, and exits the upgrade if any Camunda 8 data is present in your setup. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index`, which is exclusively used for Camunda 8 data imports.

Contact [Camunda support](https://camunda.com/services/support/) if you encounter issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment.

## Changes in behavior

### Telemetry

Optimize no longer gathers telemetry data, and this is removed from the UI and Elasticsearch. The associated key in the configuration file (`telemetry.telemetryEndpoint`) was removed.

## Changes in supported environments

### Camunda 7

Optimize now requires at least Camunda 7 `7.20.0` and supports up to `7.22.0+`. Camunda 7 `7.19.x` is no longer supported.

### Java

Optimize now supports Java 21+.

### Database

Optimize now supports Elasticsearch 8.13.0+ or Amazon OpenSearch 2.9.0+

See the [supported environments]($docs$/reference/supported-environments/#component-requirements) documentation for the full range of supported versions.

## Changes in translation files

### Localization file

The following terms have been added to or removed from the localization file `en.json` since the last release:

[en.json.diff](../translation-diffs/differences_localization_313_314.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark a term addition/update. Lines with a `-` mark a term removal.
