---
id: 010-to-020
title: Update 0.1 to 0.2
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Connector SDK 0.1.x to 0.2.0."
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from
[Connector SDK](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md)
0.1.x to 0.2.0.

:::caution

Be aware that the update from 0.1 to 0.2 requires manual migration steps as described below.

:::

## Connector function

With SDK version 0.2.0, we introduce the following structural changes:

- Input validation and secret replacement move from writing imperative code to declaratively using annotations.
- The Outbound aspect of APIs is more explicit. Classes have been moved to more explicit packages and have been renamed.
- New required annotation for outbound Connectors.

### Declarative validation and secrets

Input objects previously had to implement the `ConnectorInput` interface to participate in validation and secret replacement
initiated from the `ConnectorContext` using its `validate` and `replaceSecrets` methods respectively.

With version 0.2.0, we remove the imperative approach for validation and secret replacement from the SDK.
Instead, you can use annotations to describe the constraints of input attributes and mark those that can contain
secrets.

These are two input objects written with the SDK version 0.1.x:

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorInput;
import io.camunda.connector.api.SecretStore;
import io.camunda.connector.api.Validator;

public class MyConnectorRequest implements ConnectorInput {

  private String message;
  private Authentication authentication;

  @Override
  public void validateWith(final Validator validator) {
    validator.require(message, "message");
    validator.require(authentication, "authentication");
    validateIfNotNull(authentication, validator);
  }

  @Override
  public void replaceSecrets(final SecretStore secretStore) {
    replaceSecretsIfNotNull(authentication, secretStore);
  }
}
```

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorInput;
import io.camunda.connector.api.SecretStore;
import io.camunda.connector.api.Validator;

public class Authentication implements ConnectorInput {

  private String user;
  private String token;

  @Override
  public void validateWith(final Validator validator) {
    validator.require(user, "user");
    validator.require(token, "token");
    if (token != null && !(token.startsWith("xobx") || token.startsWith("secrets."))) {
      validator.addErrorMessage("Token must start with \"xobx\" or be a secret");
    }
  }

  @Override
  public void replaceSecrets(final SecretStore secretStore) {
    token = secretStore.replaceSecret(token);
  }
}
```

You can express the same input objects with SDK version 0.2.0 as follows:

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.annotation.Secret;
import jakarta.validation.Valid;
import jakarta.validation.constraints.NotEmpty;
import jakarta.validation.constraints.NotNull;

public class MyConnectorRequest {

  @NotEmpty
  private String message;

  @NotNull
  @Valid
  @Secret
  private Authentication authentication;
}
```

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.annotation.Secret;
import jakarta.validation.constraints.NotEmpty;
import jakarta.validation.constraints.Pattern;

public class Authentication {

  @NotEmpty
  private String user;

  @NotEmpty
  @Pattern("^(xobx-|secret).+")
  @Secret
  private String token;
}
```

As a result, you have to remove the `ConnectorInput` interface implementation and the imperative code that comes with `validateWith`
and `replaceSecrets`. You can now concisely describe the constraints of attributes rather then expressing them in imperative code.

In order to use annoation-based validation out of the box, you can include the new artifact `connector-validation` that
comes with the SDK.

<Tabs groupId="dependency" defaultValue="maven" values={
[
{label: 'Maven dependency', value: 'maven' },
{label: 'Gradle dependency', value: 'gradle' }
]
}>

<TabItem value='maven'>

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.camunda.connector</groupId>
  <artifactId>connector-validation</artifactId>
  <version>0.2.0</version>
</dependency>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gradle'>

```yml
implementation 'io.camunda.connector:connector-validation:0.2.0'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

You can read more about validation and secret replacement in our
[SDK Guide](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md).

### Explicit Outbound aspect

With version 0.2.0 of the SDK, we make the Outbound aspect of those components specific to oubound connectivity
more visible. This separates those SDK components that are tightly coupled to Outbound from those that
will be reusable for Inbound.

With this change, the names of the following classes need to be adjusted:

- Rename `io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorContext` to `io.camunda.connector.api.outbound.OutboundConnectorContext`
- Rename `io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorFunction` to `io.camunda.connector.api.outbound.OutboundConnectorFunction`
- Rename `io.camunda.connector.api.SecretProvider` to `io.camunda.connector.api.secret.SecretProvider`
- Rename `io.camunda.connector.api.SecretStore` to `io.camunda.connector.api.secret.SecretStore`
- Rename `io.camunda.connector.test.ConnectorContextBuilder` to `io.camunda.connector.test.outbound.OutboundConnectorContextBuilder`

As a result, you must replace all occurrences of the old class names and imports with the new ones. This includes the
SPI for the connector function itself. Therefore, rename the file `META-INF/services/io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorFunction` to
`META-INF/services/io.camunda.connector.api.outbound.OutboundConnectorFunction`.

### `@OutboundConnector` annotation

For best interoperability, Connectors provide default meta-data (`name`, `type`, `inputVariables`) via the `@OutboundConnector` annotation:

```java
@OutboundConnector(
    name = "PING",
    inputVariables = {"caller"},
    type = "io.camunda.example.PingConnector:1"
)
public class PingConnector implements OutboundConnectorFunction {
  ...
}
```

## Connector runtime environment

If using the
[pre-packaged runtime environment](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md#pre-packaged-runtime-environment)
that comes with the SDK does not fit your use case, you can create a custom runtime environment.

With version 0.2.0 of the [job worker runtime environment](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md#connector-job-handler), you need to make the following changes:

- Rename `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.ConnectorJobHandler` to `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.api.outbound.ConnectorJobHandler`
- Rename connector related env variables from `ZEEBE_` to `CONNECTOR_`. Zeebe configuration properties remain unchanged

As a general change in behavior the module will now pick up connectors from classpath unless it is explicitly configured via environment variables.

Also take the name changes in the [SDK core](#explicit-outbound-aspect) into account.

Implementing your own Connector wrapper you need to provide a Connector context specific to
your environment. Consider extending the `io.camunda.connector.impl.outbound.AbstractConnectorContext`
instead of implementing the `io.camunda.connector.api.ConnectorContext` yourself. Most of the commonly needed functionality
is already provided in there.
