---
id: 020-to-030
title: Update 0.2 to 0.3
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Connector SDK 0.2.x to 0.3.0."
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from
[Connector SDK](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md)
0.2.x to 0.3.0.

:::caution

Be aware that the update from 0.2 to 0.3 requires manual migration steps as described below.

:::

## Connector function

With SDK version 0.3.0, we introduce the following structural changes:

- Input validation moves from Jakarta Bean Validation API version 3.0 to 2.0.
- SDK artifacts have to be in scope `provided`.

### Update to Validation API 2.0

To better integrate in the current Java ecosystem and widely used frameworks like Spring 5 and Spring Boot 2, the `connector-validation` module
now operates on Jakarta Bean Validation API version 2.0 instead of version 3.0. Adjust your Connector input objects using validation as follows:

Replace all class imports starting with `jakarta.validation` by `javax.validation`. A Connector input class on SDK 0.2.x with the following imports:

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.annotation.Secret;
import jakarta.validation.constraints.NotEmpty;
import java.io.IOException;
import java.util.Objects;
```

changes to the following:

```java
import io.camunda.connector.api.annotation.Secret;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotEmpty;
import java.io.IOException;
import java.util.Objects;
```

This way, the Connector runtime environments are able to pick up your validations correctly.

### Provided SDK artifacts

The Connector runtime environments can execute multiple Connectors at once. The environments also provide the base SDK artifacts and their classes
to any Connector they execute. This comprises runtime-specific classes related to the Connector context as well as the Connector core and the validation
classes. To minimize the possibility of incompatible classes being on the same classpath, Connectors are required to depend on `connector-core` and
`connector-validation` in Maven's dependency scope `provided`. Other dependency management frameworks like Gradle offer similar scopes.

As a result, you need to include the SDK artifacts as follows in Maven:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.camunda.connector</groupId>
  <artifactId>connector-core</artifactId>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.camunda.connector</groupId>
  <artifactId>connector-validation</artifactId>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

## Connector runtime environment

The SDK provides a [pre-packaged runtime environment](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md#pre-packaged-runtime-environment)
that you can start manually. With version 0.3.0, this runtime moves from the [SDK repository](https://github.com/camunda/connector-sdk/tree/stable/0.2/runtime-job-worker)
to [Spring Zeebe](https://github.com/camunda-community-hub/spring-zeebe/tree/master/connector-runtime). This also means that the provided runtime now is
a Spring Boot application, based on Spring Zeebe. Thus, it offers all out-of-the-box capabilities Spring Zeebe provides.

The Connector runtime JAR for manual installation can now be fetched from https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/camunda/spring-zeebe-connector-runtime/
(starting with version `8.1.3`) instead of https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/camunda/connector/connector-runtime-job-worker/. You can start the runtime
environment with the following command:

```bash
java -cp 'spring-zeebe-connector-runtime-VERSION-with-dependencies.jar:connector-http-json-VERSION-with-dependencies.jar' \
    io.camunda.connector.runtime.ConnectorRuntimeApplication
```

The Docker image is still accessible at https://hub.docker.com/r/camunda/connectors/tags.

### Custom runtime environments

If you are building a custom runtime environment, please note the following adjustments:

- The `runtime-util` artifact replaces the `runtime-job-worker` artifact.
- The `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.api.outbound.ConnectorJobHandler` has moved to `import io.camunda.connector.runtime.util.outbound.ConnectorJobHandler`.
- The `io.camunda.connector.impl.outbound.AbstractOutboundConnectorContext` has moved to `io.camunda.connector.impl.context.AbstractConnectorContext`.
- To build your own context class, we recommend to use the following signature:

```java
public class MyContext extends AbstractConnectorContext implements OutboundConnectorContext {}
```

- The `SecretStore` class has been removed. Please initialize your context class with a `super(SecretProvider)` call. Remove the `getSecretStore` method, if you used it.

```java
public class MyContext extends AbstractConnectorContext implements OutboundConnectorContext {

  public MyContext(final SecretProvider provider) {
    super(provider);
    ...
  }
}
```
