---
id: 030-to-040
title: Update 0.3 to 0.4
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Connector SDK 0.3.x to 0.4.0."
---

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from
[Connector SDK](/components/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md)
0.3.x to 0.4.0.

:::caution

Be aware that the update from 0.3 to 0.4 requires manual migration steps as described below.

:::

With SDK version 0.4.0, we introduce many basic structural changes:

- Switching default Connector Runtime to Spring Boot/Spring Zeebe for outbound Connectors.
- Introducing webhook inbound Connector.
- Moved out-of-the-box connectors to mono-repo at https://github.com/camunda/connectors-bundle/tree/main/connectors to ease dependency management and conflict resolution.
- Build Connector bundle artifact and Docker image by Maven as default (done by adding various fat jars to one Docker image).
- Adding GCP Secret Provider used in Camunda SaaS.

### Inbound webhook

Spring Zeebe runtime with version `0.4.0` SDK introduces support of inbound webhook capabilities.
See the [list of available inbound Connectors](../../../components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/available-connectors-overview.md).

To function properly, Spring Zeebe runtime requires connection to [Operate API](../../../apis-tools/operate-api/index.md). Read more on [how to connect to Operate or disable it completely](../../../self-managed/connectors-deployment/connectors-configuration.md#local-installation).

### What happens if I don't properly configure connection to Operate API?

If you don't configure properly connection to Operate API, it will be not possible to poll process definitions from the Operate therefore the webhook functionality won't be working.
In addition to that, you may observe exception spam in your log file every 5 seconds complaining to inability to connect to Operate.
Overall, this is not critical and given there are no other issues, the connector runtime should function properly.
