---
id: 850-announcements
title: "8.5 - 8.3 Release announcements"
description: "Supported environment changes and breaking changes or deprecations for the Camunda 8.5, 8.4, and 8.3 releases."
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

Supported environment changes and breaking changes or deprecations for the Camunda 8.5, 8.4, and 8.3 releases are summarized below.

:::tip Release notes and quality board

- See [release notes](/reference/announcements-release-notes/850/850-release-notes.md) to learn more about new features and enhancements.
- Refer to the [quality board](https://github.com/orgs/camunda/projects/187/views/18) for an overview of known bugs by component and severity.

:::

## Camunda 8.5

| Release date | End of maintenance | Release notes                                                                        |
| :----------- | :----------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9 April 2024 | 14 October 2025    | [8.5 release notes](/reference/announcements-release-notes/850/850-release-notes.md) |

### Changes in supported environments

#### Zeebe Go client

- Raised minimum Go version to 1.21 for the Zeebe Go client

#### Syntax changes in Helm chart

A Camunda Helm chart upgrade is not possible from v9.x.x to v10.0.0 or v10.0.1. Instead, upgrade directly to v10.0.2+.

The Camunda Helm chart v10.0.0 has major changes in the values file structure. Some keys in the values file have been changed. For compatibility, the keys are deprecated in the Camunda release cycle 8.5 and will be removed in the Camunda 8.6 release (October 2024).

Follow the [upgrade instructions](/self-managed/installation-methods/helm/upgrade/index.md#helm-chart-1002+) to upgrade from Camunda Helm chart v9.x.x to Camunda Helm chart v10.x.x.

#### Support for Amazon OpenSearch

With the 8.5 release, Optimize is now also compatible with [Amazon OpenSearch](https://aws.amazon.com/de/opensearch-service/) 2.5+. Note that using Amazon OpenSearch requires [setting up a new Camunda installation](/versioned_docs/version-8.5/self-managed/setup/overview.md). A migration from previous versions or Elasticsearch environments is not supported.

This release contains the following limitations:

- In **Optimize `8.5.0`**
  - **Limitation**
    - **Description:** OpenSearch support in Optimize is limited to data import and the raw data report.
    - **Reference:** n/a
    - **Mitigation:** Optimize can be installed and used in production with limited reporting functionality. Optimize imports all process data generated by Zeebe. All reporting functionality as described in the docs will be delivered with upcoming patches.
- In **Console `8.5.x`**
  - **Limitation**
    - **Description:** Custom OIDC provider support for Console is not supported
    - **Reference:** https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/784

### Key changes

#### Deprecation of Self-Managed AWS Marketplace offering

As of **October 2025**, the **Self-Managed AWS Marketplace** offering will be **deprecated** and no longer publicly available.  
Existing customers may continue to use the product until their contracts expire.

For future use, refer to our [new AWS Marketplace listing](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6y664fcnydiqg?sr=0-1&ref_=beagle&applicationId=AWSMPContessa) for more information.

#### Removal of Web Modeler's beta API

The Web Modeler beta API has been removed. The API was deprecated in 8.3 and is no longer available in 8.5. Use the [Web Modeler v1 API](/versioned_docs/version-8.5/apis-tools/web-modeler-api/index.md) instead.
For a migration guide, see the [Web Modeler API documentation](/versioned_docs/version-8.5/apis-tools/web-modeler-api/index.md#migrating-from-beta-to-v1).

#### Zeebe 8.5.0 breaks serialization of timestamp values in management API (Self-Managed only)

Zeebe 8.5.0 was released with [a new bug](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/17347) that breaks serialization of timestamp values in management APIs, such as [backup](/versioned_docs/version-8.5/self-managed/operational-guides/backup-restore/backup-and-restore.md) and [cluster scaling](/versioned_docs/version-8.5/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/cluster-scaling.md).
Timestamps which were previously serialized as `ISO8061` strings are now serialized as integer values.

Until a fix is delivered in 8.5.1, workarounds include not deserializing timestamp values from affected APIs, or deserializing them as integers.

### Camunda 8 Self-Managed

#### Helm

##### ExtraVolumeClaimTemplates

You can now add custom `extraVolumeClaimTemplates` to the Zeebe/Core StatefulSet by supplying an array of templates in your Helm values file. This allows you to attach additional persistent volumes to each Zeebe/Core pod for use cases such as custom storage or log directories.

**Important:**  
Kubernetes does not allow you to change the `volumeClaimTemplates` of an existing StatefulSet. If you add, remove, or modify `extraVolumeClaimTemplates` after initial deployment, you must delete and recreate the StatefulSet (which will also delete the pods) for the changes to take effect. This may require additional planning and data migration steps to avoid data loss.

##### Common labels for Camunda resources

A new `commonLabels` value is now available and integrates with `camundaPlatform.labels`. This allows you to define mutable labels that are automatically applied to all Camunda resources. By setting `commonLabels`, you can ensure consistent labeling across deployments, making it easier to manage, organize, and identify resources within your Camunda environment.

##### Configure Web Modeler replicas

The number of replicas for the Web Modeler REST API and web app deployments can be set with new configuration properties: `webModeler.restapi.replicas` and `webModeler.webapp.replicas`, respectively.

## Camunda 8.4

| Release date   | End of maintenance |
| :------------- | :----------------- |
| 9 January 2024 | 9 July 2025        |

### Changes in supported environments

#### Versioning changes in Helm chart

As of the 8.4 release, the Camunda 8 **Helm chart** version is decoupled from the version of the application. The Helm chart release still follows the applications release cycle, but it has an independent version. (e.g., in the application release cycle 8.4, the chart version is 9.0.0).

For more details about the applications version included in the Helm chart, review the [full version matrix](https://helm.camunda.io/camunda-platform/version-matrix/).

#### Versioning changes in Elasticsearch

As of the 8.4 release, Camunda is compatible with Elasticsearch 8.9+ and no longer supports older Elasticsearch versions. See [supported environments](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/reference/supported-environments.md).

#### Support for Amazon OpenSearch

As of the 8.4 release, Zeebe, Operate, and Tasklist are now compatible with [Amazon OpenSearch](https://aws.amazon.com/de/opensearch-service/) 2.5.x. Note that using Amazon OpenSearch requires [setting up a new Camunda installation](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/self-managed/about-self-managed.md). A migration from previous versions or Elasticsearch environments is currently not supported.

:::info
The Helm charts are not yet prepared with the OpenSearch configurations as templates/pre-filled. The Helm charts can still be used to install for OpenSearch, but some adjustments are needed beforehand. Refer to the [Helm deployment documentation](/self-managed/installation-methods/helm/install.md) for further details.
:::

This release contains the following limitations:

- In **Operate `8.4.0`**
  - **Bug**
    - **Description:** Instance migration always points to the latest process version
    - **Reference:** https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/567
    - **Mitigation:** Bug is planned to be fixed with upcoming `8.4.1` release
  - **Bug**
    - **Description:** Backwards migration over multiple versions does not work
    - **Reference:** https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/568
    - **Mitigation:** Bug is planned to be fixed with upcoming `8.4.1` release
- In **Camunda HELM `9.0.x`**

  - **Limitation**
    - **Description:** The existing Helm charts use the Elasticsearch configurations by default and are not yet prepared with the OpenSearch configurations as templates/pre-filled. The Helm charts can still be used to install for OpenSearch, but some adjustments are needed beforehand.
    - **Reference:** n/a
    - **Mitigation:**
      1. Refer to our [docs for the installation](/self-managed/installation-methods/helm/install.md#components-installed-by-the-helm-charts), the docs include guidance about necessary adjustments of the Helm chart configuration.
      2. The OpenSearch configuration in Helm charts will be provided in one of our future Helm releases.

- In **Connectors `8.4.x`**
  - **Missing feature**
    - **Description:** Custom OIDC provider support for connectors is missing
    - **Reference:** https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/569
    - **Mitigation:**
      1. Feature is planned to be delivered with an upcoming patch release. Please see [issue](https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/569) for latest progress.
      2. [Disable connectors component](/self-managed/installation-methods/helm/configure/connect-to-an-oidc-provider.md#configuration) when configuring a custom OIDC provider.

### Key changes

#### Deprecation of Self-Managed AWS Marketplace offering

As of **October 2025**, the **Self-Managed AWS Marketplace** offering will be **deprecated** and no longer publicly available.  
Existing customers may continue to use the product until their contracts expire.

For future use, refer to our [new AWS Marketplace listing](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6y664fcnydiqg?sr=0-1&ref_=beagle&applicationId=AWSMPContessa) for more information.

#### Form linking

The [form linking](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/components/modeler/web-modeler/advanced-modeling/form-linking.md#using-the-link-button) feature is impacted by an [issue](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/16311) where the wrong forms can get linked with new user task instances, effectively corrupting the user task instance. If you make use of this feature and run either `8.4.0`, `8.4.1` or `8.4.2`, we urge you to update to the newest `8.4.3` patch that includes the required fix.

Follow the instructions in the [form linking](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/components/modeler/web-modeler/advanced-modeling/form-linking.md#known-issues-with-linked-forms) documentation to resolve this issue.
:::

#### Deprecated: Zeebe configuration properties for Camunda Identity

The [Zeebe configuration properties for Camunda Identity](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/configuration/gateway.md#zeebegatewayclustersecurityauthenticationidentity)
were deprecated in `8.4`. Please use the dedicated Camunda Identity properties or the [corresponding environment variables](/versioned_docs/version-8.4/self-managed/identity/deployment/configuration-variables.md#core-configuration).

### Additional features

#### Dockerfile numeric ID

The Dockerfile now uses a numeric user ID instead of a non-numeric user.
This will allow the Helm users to use `runAsNonRoot=true` without the need to explicitly set the ID in the Helm `values.yaml` file.
