---
id: 0100-to-0110
title: Update 0.10 to 0.11
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Connector SDK 0.10.x to 0.11.0."
---

<span class="badge badge--beginner">Beginner</span>

:::note
Migrate directly to version 0.11.2 of the SDK. This contains a fix for several issues in the 0.11.0 release.
:::

This SDK release is not backwards-compatible. We are moving towards a stable Connectors release and continue to improve the experience of developing custom Connectors.

In this SDK version, we changed the `OutboundConnectorContext` and `InboundConnectorContext interfaces significantly.` You can no longer use the `getVariablesAsType` or `getPropertiesAsType` methods in outbound and inbound Connectors, respectively.
Use the new `bindVariables` method instead, as it takes care of secret replacement, payload validation, and deserialization automatically.

We are moving away from a mandatory `@Secret` annotation.
From this release onwards, secrets are automatically replaced in all input variables/properties without the need to explicitly declare an annotation.

To migrate your Connector implementations, complete the following:

1. If you used the `OutboundConnectorContext::getVariablesAsType` method in you outbound Connector functions, replace it with `OutboundConnectorContext::bindVariables`.
2. If you used the `InboundConnectorContext::getPropertiesAsType` method in you inbound Connector executables, replace it with `InboundConnectorContext::bindProperties`.
3. Remove calls to `OutboundConnectorContext::replaceSecrets` and `InboundConnectorContext::replaceSecrets` methods. The secrets are now replaced automatically.
4. Remove calls to `OutboundConnectorContext::validate` and `InboundConnectorContext::validate` methods. The validation is now performed automatically.
5. If you used the `@Secret` annotation in your Connector implementations, you can safely remove it, as it has no effect.
