---
id: 830-to-840
title: Update 8.3 to 8.4
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.3.x to Camunda 8.4.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.3.x to 8.4.x for each component.

## Helm chart

As of the 8.4 release, the Camunda 8 **Helm chart** version is decoupled from the version of the application. The Helm chart release still follows the applications release cycle, but it has an independent version. (e.g., in the application release cycle 8.4, the chart version is 9.0.0).

For more details about the applications version included in the Helm chart, review the [full version matrix](https://helm.camunda.io/camunda-platform/version-matrix/).

## Zeebe

### Verifying configuration

Zeebe will not log configuration at startup anymore, but instead makes it available via the management endpoint at [http://localhost:9600/actuator/configprops](http://localhost:9600/actuator/configprops). See [the configuration page](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/configuration/configuration.md) for more.

### Dockerfile numeric ID

The Dockerfile now uses a numeric user ID instead of a non-numeric user.
This will allow the Helm users to use `runAsNonRoot=true` without the need to explicitly set the ID in the Helm `values.yaml` file.

:::caution Breaking Change
If you experience permission errors on data or log volumes access when updating to 8.4.0, you may need to make sure mounted volumes and existing files are writable by this user.

In a [Kubernetes setup this can be done by setting the fsGroup](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#configure-volume-permission-and-ownership-change-policy-for-pods) to 1001. Newer versions of the Camunda Helm chart have this set by default

In a non-Kubernetes setup, such as a Docker Compose setup, this can be done by running the following command:

```
find / -user 1000 -exec chown 1001 {} \;
```

For more details, refer to the [Camunda Helm update instructions](/self-managed/setup/upgrade.md#v83).
:::

## Changes in supported environments

- Zeebe, Operate, Tasklist, and Optimize now require Elasticsearch `8.9+`. Please ensure to update your Elasticsearch environment when migrating to Camunda `8.4.x`.
- Zeebe, Operate, and Tasklist now support Amazon OpenSearch `2.5.x`. Note that using Amazon OpenSearch requires setting up a new Camunda installation. A migration from previous versions or Elasticsearch environments is currently not supported.

Please see [supported environments](../../../reference/supported-environments.md) for more a full overview of Camunda environment requirements.
