---
id: 850-to-860
title: Update 8.5 to 8.6
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.5.x to Camunda 8.6.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.5.x to 8.6.x for each component.

## Zeebe, Operate, and Tasklist must run on exact same minor and patch levels

From version `8.6.0` forward, the core components Zeebe, Operate, and Tasklist must run the exact same `minor` and `patch` level to ensure compatibility. See the [component version matrix](/reference/supported-environments.md#component-version-matrix) for an overview of components.

## End of life: Spring-Zeebe community project

In Camunda 8.6 the Spring-Zeebe community project was replaced by the [Spring Zeebe SDK](../../../apis-tools/spring-zeebe-sdk/getting-started.md).

As [Testing support for the Spring SDK](../../../apis-tools/spring-zeebe-sdk/getting-started.md#writing-test-cases) was only added with the 8.6.7 release, Camunda recommends you migrate directly to version 8.6.7 or later.

## Helm chart

### Separated Ingress deprecation

The separated Ingress Helm configuration for Camunda 8 Self-Managed has been deprecated in 8.6, and will be removed from the Helm chart in 8.8. Only the combined Ingress configuration is officially supported. See the [Ingress guide](/self-managed/setup/guides/ingress-setup.md) for more information on configuring a combined Ingress setup.

### Elasticsearch nodes number

The default value of Elasticsearch deployment pods has changed from 2 to 3, and an affinity setting has been added to avoid scheduling Elasticsearch pods on the same Kubernetes worker.

## Connectors

### Rest connector

:::caution Breaking change
If one of your endpoints returns multiple Set-Cookie headers and you need to capture all of them, set `groupSetCookieHeaders` to `true` in the element template XML. This aggregates the headers into a list. This feature is available since version 8.6.7. The grouping is enabled by default since version 8.6.10.
:::

:::caution Breaking change
If one of your endpoints requires pre-encoded URL elements, this behavior will change in version 8.6.0. Since 8.6.10, the element template includes the skipEncoding property, which can be set to "true". This disables the automatic decoding and re-encoding process, ensuring the URL is sent to the server exactly as provided.
:::

### Kafka connector supports Avro schema

:::caution Breaking change

The [Camunda Kafka connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/kafka.md) supports [Schema Registry](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/schema-registry/index.html) as of version 8.6.0.
This means:

- When using connectors 8.6.0, you must use the following Kafka connector versions:
  - For inbound connectors: 6 (or higher)
  - For outbound connector: 5 (or higher)
- When using connectors 8.5.x (or older), you must use the following Kafka connector versions:
  - For inbound connectors: 5 (or lower)
  - For outbound connector: 4 (or lower)

Avro schema support is the only breaking change for this connector. If you do not use Avro schema, you can continue using the connector as before.

:::

## OpenShift

We added the `global.compatibility.openshift.adaptSecurityContext` variable in the values.yaml that can be used to set the following possible values:

- `force`: The `runAsUser` and `fsGroup` values will be null in all components.
- `disabled`: The `runAsUser` and `fsGroup` values will not be modified (default).

To deploy Camunda 8 on OpenShift, run the following command:

```shell
helm install camunda camunda/camunda-platform --version $HELM_CHART_VERSION --skip-crds \
  --set global.compatibility.openshift.adaptSecurityContext=force
```

With this change, there is no need to do extra steps with the post-renderer. You can install the chart as normal. Please refer to the [Red Hat OpenShift document](/self-managed/setup/deploy/openshift/redhat-openshift.md) for more information.

## Operate and Tasklist

### New base path for Operate and Tasklist web applications

We have introduced a new base path for both the Operate and Tasklist web applications. The new base path for Operate is `/operate`, and for Tasklist, it is `/tasklist`. For more information, see the 8.6 [announcements](/reference/announcements-release-notes/860/860-announcements.md#new-base-path-for-operate-and-tasklist-web-applications).

### Intra-cluster communication

Operate and Tasklist are now both part of the Orchestration Cluster. You can enable TLS encryption for intra-cluster connections as well starting from `8.6.14`. For detailed information refer to [secure cluster configuration](../../zeebe-deployment/security/secure-cluster-communication.md).

## Zeebe

### Potential issue leading to stopped processing after update

When updating from `8.5.17` to (`8.6.0`, …, `8.6.12`), Zeebe processing can stop after the update in some situations, where multi-instance elements are used. This issue is fixed in `8.6.13`. When affected, going to `8.6.13` fully mitigates the issue. There is no risk of data loss.
