---
id: 860-to-870
title: Update 8.6 to 8.7
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.6.x to Camunda 8.7.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.6.x to 8.7.x for each component.

## Backup

### Google Cloud Storage

Configuring a non-existing bucket for backups will not prevent Zeebe to start up anymore and will only result
in logs (at WARN) in the startup phase.

## REST API key attributes change to `string`

With 8.7, the default REST API key attribute type changes from `integer (int64)` to `string`.

Key properties have a `key` suffix, and they serve as the technical unique identifier for entities, such as
`processDefinitionKey` and `tenantKey`, with `correlationKey` being the only exception. Their type now defaults to
`string` for the default `application/json` content type.

Our API can still work with key attributes as numbers using different content type headers.  
See the [overview about API Key Attributes][camunda8-api-overview] for more details.

:::warning Still using number keys?
If you still wish to use keys as `integer (int64)` types, you have to include the
`application/vnd.camunda.api.keys.number+json` header in your client requests.
:::

If you are using an 8.6 or 8.5 Java Client, the C8 API will recognize this and automatically return key
attributes as `integer (int64)`. You don't need to add the extra content-type header to your client requests.

[camunda8-api-overview]: ../../../apis-tools/camunda-api-rest/camunda-api-rest-overview.md#api-key-attributes

## Identity

### Keycloak now requires v25 or v26

Identity 8.7 now requires Keycloak v25 or v26, and Keycloak versions must be updated to match. The following changes to the Helm chart have been made to support this upgrade.

#### Increase container resources

Keycloak containers require an increase in resources from the default. To set this increase, configure the following in the Camunda Helm chart:

```yaml
resources:
  requests:
    cpu: 1000m
    memory: 1Gi
  limits:
    cpu: 2000m
    memory: 2Gi
```

#### Allow insecure images

As we repackage the Bitnami distribution with our Identity login page, `allowInsecureImages` must be set to `true`. This can be configured in the Camunda helm chart via the following:

```yaml
identityKeycloak:
  global:
    security:
      allowInsecureImages: true
```
