---
id: 3.1-to-3.2
title: "Update notes (3.1 to 3.2)"
---

<span class="badge badge--platform">Camunda Platform 7 only</span>

:::note Heads Up!
To update Optimize to version 3.3.0, perform the following steps first: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (e.g due to a new feature)

## Known issues

### Decision report filter incompatibilities - update and runtime errors possible

Due to a restriction in the database schema for decision reports, the usage of filters is limited in Optimize 3.2.0 and will only be fully working again in Optimize 3.3.0.

This results in the behavior that once a certain filter type was used, e.g. a fixed evaluation date filter, another filter type cannot be used anymore, e.g. a relative evaluation date filter. This issue can occur at runtime as well as during the update.

Usually, you will see a log similar to this one when you hit this issue:

```
{"error":{"root_cause":[{"type":"mapper_parsing_exception","reason":"object mapping for [data.filter.data.start] tried to parse field [start] as object, but found a concrete value"}],"type":"mapper_parsing_exception","reason":"object mapping for [data.filter.data.start] tried to parse field [start] as object, but found a concrete value"},"status":400}
```

_We thus highly recommend removing all filters used on decision reports before upgrading to Optimize 3.2.0._

## Changes in the supported environments

With this Optimize version there are also changes in the supported versions of Elasticsearch.

### Elasticsearch

Optimize now supports Elasticsearch versions 7.7 and 7.8.

See the [Supported Environments](./../../../reference/supported-environments.md/) sections for the full range of supported versions.

### Camunda Platform 7

Optimize now requires at least Camunda Platform 7 `7.12.11`, and `7.11.x` is not supported anymore.
See the [Supported Environments](./../../../reference/supported-environments.md) sections for the full range of supported versions.

### Unexpected behavior

#### Cancelled flow node filter

With this version, Optimize now allows you to filter for process instances where a given set of flow nodes have been canceled, as well as for flow nodes or user tasks that have been canceled.

However, any canceled flow nodes and user tasks already imported by Optimize before this release will not appear as canceled in Optimize so will continue to be treated the same as any other completed flow node or user task. To use these options for previously imported data, you will need to [force a reimport](../../reimport) from the engine.

## Limitations

### No running flow node instances visible if blocked by an incident

Optimize 3.2.0 introduces the visibility of [incidents]($optimize$/userguide/process-analysis/metadata-filters#incident-filter), but in contrast to Camunda Cockpit, Optimize currently does not show flow node instances in flow node view reports for those flow node instances that are blocked by an incident.
