---
id: 2.4-to-2.5
title: "Update notes (2.4 to 2.5)"
---

<span class="badge badge--platform">Camunda 7 only</span>

:::note Heads Up!
To update Optimize to version 2.5.0, perform the following steps first: [Migration & Update Instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in the supported environments
- Any unexpected behavior of Optimize (e.g due to a new feature)

## Limitations

If you intend to make use of the new [Multi-Tenancy-Feature](./../configuration/multi-tenancy.md), you need to perform a [full reimport](../../reimport) and may need to amend your existing reports by selecting the tenant you want the report to be based on.

## Known issues

### Changes in the plugin system

There are required changes for plugins implementing `VariableImportAdapter`.
If you use such a plugin, perform the following steps:

1. In the plugin, update the Optimize plugin dependency to version 2.5.
2. The class `PluginVariableDto` now contains the new field `tenantId`. Depending on your plugin implementation, it might be necessary to include handling this field to not lose it on import.
3. Build the new version of the plugin and replace the old `jar` with the new one.

### Misinterpreted cron expressions

The configuration of Optimize allows you to define when the history cleanup is triggered using cron expression notation. However, the values are incorrectly interpreted in Optimize. For example, the `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` configuration has the default value `0 1 * * *`, which should be 01:00 AM every day. Unfortunately, a bug causes this to be interpreted as every hour.

To fix this, use the Spring [cron expression notation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/scheduling/support/CronExpression.html). For instance, the default value for `historyCleanup.cronTrigger` would then be `0 0 1 * * *`.
