---
id: 3.10-to-3.11_8.3
title: "Upgrade notes (3.10 to 8.3/3.11)"
---

:::note Heads up!
To upgrade Optimize to version 8.3/3.11, perform the steps in the [migration and upgrade instructions](./instructions.md).
:::

The upgrade to 8.3/3.11 can be performed from any 3.10.x release.

Here you will find information about:

- Limitations
- Known issues
- Changes in supported environments
- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

## Known issues

## Migration of Camunda 7 data for 3.11.0, 3.11.1, and 3.11.2

Under some circumstances, the migration of Camunda 7 data for versions 3.11.0, 3.11.1, and 3.11.2 can cause issues with the tenant selection of report definitions and collection scopes. This only occurs if data is present in Elasticsearch with the value `zeebe` in the datasource field, which can happen if the `onboarding` dataset set is used in Optimize, for example. To avoid this issue, we recommend Camunda 7 users skip 3.11.0, 3.11.1, and 3.11.2, and instead migrate straight to Optimize version 3.11.3.

## Changes in supported environments

### Elasticsearch

With 8.3/3.11, Optimize now supports Elasticsearch `8.8`. Elasticsearch `8.5`, `8.6` and `8.7` are no longer supported.
Additionally, please note there are temporary changes in Optimize's Elasticsearch support as detailed below:

| Optimize version                        | Elasticsearch version            |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Optimize 3.10.0 - Optimize 3.10.3       | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.5.0+, 8.6.0+ |
| Optimize 3.10.4                         | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.7.0+, 8.8.0+ |
| Optimize 3.10.5 - Optimize 8.3.x/3.11.x | 7.16.2+, 7.17.0+, 8.5.0+, 8.6.0+ |
| Optimize 8.3.x/3.11.x                   | 8.8.0+                           |

See the [supported environments](/reference/supported-environments.md) section for the full range of supported versions.

If you need to update your Elasticsearch cluster, refer to the general [Elasticsearch update guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html). Usually, the only thing you need to do is perform a [rolling update](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rolling-upgrades.html).

### Java

With this release, the minimum version of Java that Optimize supports is now Java 17. See the [Supported Environments](/reference/supported-environments.md) sections for more information on supported versions.

### Plugins

Optimize now runs with Spring Boot 3. As a result, some plugin interfaces have been updated accordingly. More specifically, the [Engine Rest Filter Plugin](./../plugins/engine-rest-filter-plugin.md) and the [Single-Sign-On Plugin](./../plugins/single-sign-on.md) now import jakarta dependencies. If you use these plugins and are updating from version 3.10.3 or earlier, you will need to adjust your implementation accordingly.

### Logging

With the change to Spring Boot 3, Optimize's logging configuration format has also been updated. If you are updating from version 3.10.3 or earlier, please review the updated `environment-logback.xml` to make sure your configuration is valid.

## Changes in behavior

### Collection Role Cleanup

Prior to Optimize 8.3/3.11, Optimize has performed collection role cleanup after syncing identities with the engine. From
Optimize 8.3/3.11 onwards, this is now disabled by default. It can be reenabled by setting the
`import.identitySync.collectionRoleCleanupEnabled` property value to `true`

### API behavior

Before the 7.20/8.3 release, the Optimize API would accept requests when the URI contained a trailing slash (`/`). This is no longer the case, and requests containing a trailing slash will no longer be matched to the corresponding API path.

### Raw Data Report API

:::caution
These changes require you to adjust any integrations using the data mentioned below.
:::

The data structure of raw data reports has changed. For the data export API, the properties named `numberOfIncidents`, `numberOfOpenIncidents`, and `numberOfUserTasks` is now renamed to `incidents`, `openIncidents`, and `userTasks` respectively, and grouped together in a single property named `counts`.

Before:

```
{
  ...
  results: {
    ...
    measures: [
      {
        processDefinitionKey: 'someKey',
        numberOfIncidents: 1,
        numberOfOpenIncidents: 0,
        numberOfUserTasks: 1,
        ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

After:

```
{
  ...
  results: {
    ...
    measures: [
      {
        processDefinitionKey: 'someKey',
        counts: {
          incidents: 1,
          openIncidents: 0,
          userTasks: 1
        },
        ...
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

For CSV export the properties are renamed to `count:incidents`, `count:openIncidents`, and `count:userTasks`.

### Localization file

The following terms have been added to or removed from the localization file `en.json` since the last release:

[en.json.diff](./translation-diffs/differences_localization_310_311.diff)

- Lines with a `+` in the beginning mark the addition/update of a term; lines with a `-` mark the removal of a term.
