---
id: 810-to-820
title: Update 8.1 to 8.2
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.1.x to Camunda 8.2.0."
---

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.1.x to 8.2.0 for each component.

## Zeebe

### New configuration for disk usage

A new configuration for [tuning disk usage](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/disk-space.md) is added.
The old configurations are still accepted, but they are deprecated. We recommend using the new configuration.

### Changes to default backpressure

The default [backpressure](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/backpressure.md) algorithm changed from **Vegas** to **additive-increase/multiplicative-decrease (AIMD)**.

:::note
This may change the performance characteristics. If you have tuned your system for specific latency or throughput, we recommend you reevaluate with the new version.
:::

### Spring Boot 3.0 - URL Matching Changes

Zeebe now uses Spring Boot 3.0, which comes with a breaking change regarding [trailing slash URL matching](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-3.0-Migration-Guide#spring-mvc-and-webflux-url-matching-changes).
This only applies to the Actuator endpoints such as the [Management API](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/management-api.md) and the [Backup API](/self-managed/operational-guides/backup-restore/zeebe-backup-and-restore.md), as well as to the [health status endpoints](/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/operations/health.md). Ensure you remove any trailing slashes when you access these endpoints, otherwise you will encounter a `404 - Not Found` error.

The [gRPC API](/apis-tools/grpc.md) is not affected by this change.

### AWS S3 Backup store connectivity

Zeebe uses an updated version of the AWS S3 client which automatically chooses between [path-style and virtual-hosted-style access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/access-bucket-intro.html).
If your S3 backup store does not support virtual-hosted-style access and the client fails to detect this, Zeebe will not connect to S3 and backups are not usable.

Self-managed deployments that use MinIO as an S3 compatible backup target might need to force path-style access.
You can use a new configuraton setting to always force path-style access: `ZEEBE_BROKER_DATA_BACKUP_S3_FORCEPATHSTYLEACCESS`.

## Operate

- It is recommended to follow a sequential update path when updating to version 8.2. For example, if running on version 8.0, first update to 8.1, then update to 8.2.
- Migration of data during the version 8.2 update could take longer than previous versions, especially for datasets containing a large amount of incidents data.
- Operate now uses Spring Boot version 3.0. Therefore, [URLs with a trailing slash will fail with an HTTP status 404](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-3.0-Migration-Guide#spring-mvc-and-webflux-url-matching-changes).

## Identity

A new feature for Identity has been added called resource authorizations. By default, this feature is disabled. To learn more about this feature see the [resource authorizations concepts page](/self-managed/concepts/access-control/resource-authorizations.md).

## Tasklist

- New configuration is required to enable the Tasklist **Process** page:
  - `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_BASEURL` environment variable should be configured to your Identity host.
  - `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_PERMISSIONS_ENABLED` environment variable should be set to `true` or `false` (default). This configures Tasklist to use authorizations from Identity.
    - To enable this variable in Tasklist, resource authorizations must be [enabled in Identity](/self-managed/concepts/access-control/resource-authorizations.md).
    - If `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_PERMISSIONS_ENABLED` is set to `true`, you must configure `CAMUNDA_TASKLIST_IDENTITY_BASEURL`. Otherwise, Tasklist will not be able to reach Identity.
- Tasklist now uses Spring Boot version 3.0. Therefore, [URLs with a trailing slash will fail with an HTTP status 404](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-3.0-Migration-Guide#spring-mvc-and-webflux-url-matching-changes).
