---
id: 820-to-830
title: Update 8.2 to 8.3
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.2.x to Camunda 8.3.0."
---

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.2.x to 8.3.0 for each component.

## Zeebe - Breaking Changes

### Zeebe Docker image now runs with unprivileged user by default

The default user in the Zeebe Docker image changed from root to an unprivileged user with the UID 1000. This was done to provide stronger compliance with the [OWASP recommendations on Docker Security](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Docker_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html#rule-2-set-a-user).

:::caution
If you experience permission errors on data or log volumes access when updating to 8.3.0, you may need to make sure mounted volumes and existing files are writable by this user.

In a [kubernetes setup this can be done by setting the fsGroup](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#configure-volume-permission-and-ownership-change-policy-for-pods) to 1000. Newer versions of the Camunda Helm chart have this is set by default

For more details and alternatives please refer to the [Camunda Helm Update instructions](/self-managed/platform-deployment/helm-kubernetes/upgrade.md/#v83).
:::

:::caution
When upgrading to 8.3, Zeebe runs a migration. Depending on the amount of active element instances in the cluster, this
migration may cause a longer startup time than usual. While this migration is running, users may experience:

- `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED` messages in job workers.
- Unhealthy partitions in the Zeebe cluster.
  - For SaaS users, this marks the entire Zeebe cluster as unhealthy.
- No processing happens during the migration.

:::

### Resources no longer available in the Deployment:CREATED event

Resources in the **Deployment:CREATED** event are no longer available. Custom Exporters using the resources from this event must be modified to get them from the **Process:CREATED** event for BPMN models and the **DecisionRequirements:CREATED** event for DMN models.

### Change in monitoring endpoints

There were some changes to the monitoring endpoints of Zeebe, both for the gateway and the broker. All of these were existing redirects to the new endpoints, so their format is left unchanged; only the redirects have been removed.

You may have to change your Kubernetes health probes or metrics scraping endpoints to accomodate the new ones. Note that if you're deploying with the Helm charts, or are using Camunda 8 SaaS, you do not need to do anything.

#### Broker

- The `/metrics` endpoint is now `/actuator/prometheus`

#### Gateway

- The `/metrics` endpoint is now `/actuator/prometheus`
- The `/health` endpoint is now `/actuator/health`
- The `/startup` endpoint is now `/actuator/health/startup`
- The `/live` endpoint is now `/actuator/health/liveness`
