---
id: 840-to-850
title: Update 8.4 to 8.5
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.4.x to Camunda 8.5.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.4.x to 8.5.x for each component.

## Helm chart

:::caution Breaking changes
The Camunda Helm chart v10.0.0 that comes with Camunda 8.5 has major changes in the values file structure. Update the values keys before starting the chart upgrade.
:::

Carefully follow the [upgrade instructions](../../platform-deployment/helm-kubernetes/upgrade.md#v1000) to upgrade from Camunda Helm chart v9.x.x to Camunda Helm chart v10.x.x.

## Zeebe

### Deprecated broker health checks

The broker health check routes have moved, and the old routes are now deprecated. Specifically, the following routes will return [a status code of 301](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/301) and redirect you. See the table below about the new mappings:

| Old route                               | **New route**                                                 |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/health  | **http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/actuator/health/status**    |
| http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/ready   | **http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/actuator/health/readiness** |
| http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/startup | **http://{zeebe-broker-host}:9600/actuator/health/startup**   |

Please migrate to the new routes in your deployments. **If you're using the official Helm charts, then you don't have to do anything here.**

### Management properties

The `server.*` configuration properties are now used to configure _only the REST server_. This means if you wish to modify the management server properties, you now have to prefix them with `management.server.*`. Note that not all properties are supported on the management context, but most are - [refer to official documentation for more](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator.monitoring).

If you were setting any of the properties below, you will now have to change them as shown in the table:

| Old property                         | **New property**                                |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `server.address`                     | `management.server.address`                     |
| `server.host`                        | `management.server.host`                        |
| `server.host`                        | `management.server.port`                        |
| `server.ssl.enabled`                 | `management.server.ssl.enabled`                 |
| `server.ssl.certificate`             | `management.server.ssl.certificate`             |
| `server.ssl.certificate-private-key` | `management.server.ssl.certificate-private-key` |

### Changes to exported records

The `UserTask` events like `UserTask:CREATED` don't export the string value properties `candidateUsers` and `candidateGroups` anymore.
As a replacement, user task events now feature the string array properties `candidateUsersList` and `candidateGroupsList`.
Custom exporters using these events must be modified accordingly.

:::warning Breaking Change
The values of the `candidateUsers` and `candidateGroups` properties in user task records are lost during an update from `8.4` to `8.5`.
There is no data migration that moves the values from `candidateUsers` and `candidateGroups` to `candidateUsersList` and `candidateGroupsList`
since the Zeebe user tasks are only experimental in `8.4`.

If you need the data on migrated user task instances, you can reactivate them using [Process Instance Modification](/components/concepts/process-instance-modification.md).
This results in a `UserTask:CANCELED` event for the existing user task and a new `UserTask:CREATED` event with the `candidateUsersList` and `candidateGroupsList` filled based on what is configured in the process model.
:::
