---
id: 850-to-860
title: Update 8.5 to 8.6
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.5.x to Camunda 8.6.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.5.x to 8.6.x for each component.

## End of life: Spring-Zeebe community project

In Camunda 8.6 the Spring-Zeebe community project was replaced by the [Spring Zeebe SDK](../../../apis-tools/spring-zeebe-sdk/getting-started.md).

As [Testing support for the Spring SDK](../../../apis-tools/spring-zeebe-sdk/getting-started.md#writing-test-cases) was only added with the 8.6.7 release, Camunda recommends you migrate directly to version 8.6.7 or later.

## Helm chart

### Separated Ingress deprecation

The separated Ingress Helm configuration for Camunda 8 Self-Managed has been deprecated in 8.6, and will be removed from the Helm chart in 8.7. Only the combined Ingress configuration is officially supported. See the [Ingress guide](/self-managed/setup/guides/ingress-setup.md) for more information on configuring a combined Ingress setup.

### Elasticsearch nodes number

The default value of Elasticsearch deployment pods has changed from 2 to 3, and an affinity setting has been added to avoid scheduling Elasticsearch pods on the same Kubernetes worker.

## Connectors

### Kafka Connector supports Avro schema

:::caution Breaking change

The [Camunda Kafka Connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/kafka.md) supports [Schema Registry](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/schema-registry/index.html) as of version 8.6.0.
This means:

- When using Connectors 8.6.0, you must use the following Kafka Connector versions:
  - For inbound connectors: 6 (or higher)
  - For outbound connector: 5 (or higher)
- When using Connectors 8.5.x (or older), you must use the following Kafka Connector versions:
  - For inbound connectors: 5 (or lower)
  - For outbound connector: 4 (or lower)

Avro schema support is the only breaking change for this Connector. If you do not use Avro schema, you can continue using the Connector as before.

:::

## OpenShift

We added the `global.compatibility.openshift.adaptSecurityContext` variable in the values.yaml that can be used to set the following possible values:

- `force`: The `runAsUser` and `fsGroup` values will be null in all components.
- `disabled`: The `runAsUser` and `fsGroup` values will not be modified (default).

To deploy Camunda 8 on OpenShift, run the following command:

```shell
helm install camunda camunda/camunda-platform --skip-crds \
  --set global.compatibility.openshift.adaptSecurityContext=force
```

With this change, there is no need to do extra steps with the post-renderer. You can install the chart as normal. Please refer to the [Red Hat OpenShift document](/self-managed/setup/deploy/openshift/redhat-openshift.md) for more information.

## Operate and Tasklist

### New base path for Operate and Tasklist web applications

We have introduced a new base path for both the Operate and Tasklist web applications. The new base path for Operate is `/operate`, and for Tasklist, it is `/tasklist`. For more information, see the 8.6 [announcements](/reference/announcements-release-notes/860/860-announcements.md#new-base-path-for-operate-and-tasklist-web-applications).
