---
id: 870-to-880
title: Update 8.7 to 8.8
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.7.x to Camunda 8.8.0."
---

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from Camunda 8.7.x to 8.8.x for each component.

## Removed deprecated OpenAPI objects

:::warning
With the Camunda 8.8 release, deprecated API objects containing number keys have been removed, including the
corresponding `application/vnd.camunda.api.keys.number+json` content type header.
:::

In previous releases, entity keys were transitioned from `integer (int64)` to `string` types, and deprecated
`integer (int64)` keys were still supported. As of the 8.8 release, support for `integer (int64)` keys has been removed.

To update to Camunda 8.8, API objects using `integer (int64)` keys must be updated to use `string` keys and the
`application/json` header.

For more information about the key attribute type change, see
the [8.7 API key attributes overview][camunda8-api-overview].

[camunda8-api-overview]: /versioned_docs/version-8.7/apis-tools/camunda-api-rest/camunda-api-rest-overview.md#api-key-attributes

## Exported records

### `USER_TASK` records

To support User Task Listeners, some backward incompatible changes were necessary to the exported `USER_TASK` records.

#### `assignee` no longer provided in `CREATING/CREATED` events

Previously, when a user task was activating with a specified `assignee`,
we appended the following events of the `USER_TASK` value type:

- `CREATING` with `assignee` property as provided
- `CREATED` with `assignee` property as provided

The `ASSIGNING` and `ASSIGNED` events were not appended in this case.

To support the new User Task Listeners feature, the `assignee` value will not be filled in the `CREATING` and `CREATED` events anymore.

With 8.8, the following events are now appended:

- `CREATING` with `assignee` always `""` (empty string)
- `CREATED` with `assignee` always `""` (empty string)
- `ASSIGNING` with `assignee` property as provided
- `ASSIGNED` with `assignee` property as provided

#### `ASSIGNING` has become `CLAIMING` for `CLAIM` operation

When claiming a user task, we previously appended the following records of the `USER_TASK` value type:

- `CLAIM`
- `ASSIGNING`
- `ASSIGNED`

A new `CLAIMING` intent was introduced to distinguish between claiming and regular assigning.
We now append the following records when claiming a user task:

- `CLAIM`
- `CLAIMING`
- `ASSIGNED`

The `ASSIGNING` event is still appended for assigning a user task.
In that case, we append the following records:

- `ASSIGN`
- `ASSIGNING`
- `ASSIGNED`
